-- polymorphism --

These are old polymorphic design notes. I don't plan on including polymorphic capabilities in the core language anymore as there's always a work-around. I would like to look into adding it more as a macro later on though. See §P2dac for more discussion on this topic.

The plan was to require you to explicitly convert from one class to another, e.g. myValue->Iterable. A value would define how to convert from one to the other.

Future: Support conditional interfaces - e.g. the list can be cloned if its contents can be cloned. I'd need to better define the type system before I can figure out how to support this. It'll probably require using the "qualities" system, where I'm not allowed to use the transformation unless I can show the value exhibits a specific quality. The same thing should apply to normal methods - some are conditionally available depending on the value's qualities.

It is useful to be able to allow the creator of a new polymorphic question to define answers for existing values. Since polymorphic questions are achieved through translating between classes, this means there needs to be a standard way to associate a value of one type to a value of another. From there, it's not too hard to let the language do automatic translation for you.
* However, if the language does support automatic translation, it will only be one layer deep. If "YourThing" translates to "Comparable" which translates to "SupportsEquality", that doesn't mean "YourThing" will auto-translate to "SupportsEquality" (unless I add support for "Comparable" to say that "SupportsEquality" is transitive - it'll be automatically inherited by anyone implementing Comparable - either that or I let YourValue say it wants to automatically receive stuff from Comparable explicitly). Same with methods - I, perhaps, could provide a way for YourValue to say a particular method should be transitive - available on both instances so no direct translation is required before using it. Some tinkering will be needed - I'll probably start restrictive and add slack where needed.
* TODO: This also requires the ability to say that a value is an instanceof a particular class, so we can let others explain how to translate to that class instance.

It's interesting to note that in most cases, getting to your desired behavior is a two step process. First, convert to the trait class, then call the (usually) single method on it. myValue->repr.toString, myValue->Iterable.create(), myValue->Clonable.clone(), etc.
  The extra step could be avoided if the trait instances were callable. Then it's not that bad compared to what was done before. myValue->Repr(), myValue->Iter(), myValue->Clone(), etc.
  Things are callable when there's an obvious main function for them to take.
  They're verb-classes because they're all about exposing an single main action (which is also why they tend to be callable).

For now, there's no plans to make property access or being callable into traits.
  With regards to proxies, I won't support them. When the project becomes more mature, I may need to reconsider (and that may require some deep changes). But a number of their use-cases seem like they could be difficult to handle with type-safety and could potentially be achieved through other means.
  Without proxy (or getter/setter syntax support), there's no real need to make property access anything special. It can just be native syntax. Someone can always invent new syntax if they want property-access-like behavior but with more control (though if it looks like there's a good general way to invent such syntax, I might want to reconsider my approach and see if I can define the core language in terms of it).

Idea abandoned because it adds a lot of complexity and difficult-to-resolve edge cases without solving too much.